net: lwm2m: Add support for X509 certificates (#59019)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/connectivity/networking/api/lwm2m.rst

	(void)memset(&client, 0x0, sizeof(client));
	lwm2m_rd_client_start(&client, "unique-endpoint-name", 0, rd_client_event);

.. _lwm2m_security:

LwM2M security modes
********************

The Zephyr LwM2M library can be used either without security or use DTLS to secure the communication channel.

> When using DTLS with LwM2M engine, PSK (Pre-Shared Key) and X.509 certificates are two security modes that can be used to secure the communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using DTLS with the LwM2M engine, PSK (Pre-Shared Key) and X.509 certificates are the security modes that can be used to secure the communication.
```

> The engine uses LwM2M Security object (Id 0) to read stored credentials and feed keys from security object into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The engine uses LwM2M Security object (Id 0) to read the stored credentials and feed keys from the security object into
```

the TLS credential subsystem, see :ref:`secure sockets documentation <secure_sockets_interface>`.

> When security is used :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LWM2M_DTLS_SUPPORT` Kconfig option must be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_LWM2M_DTLS_SUPPORT` Kconfig option to use the security.
```

> Depending on the selected mode, security object should contain following data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the selected mode, the security object must contain following data:
```

PSK

>   Security Mode (Resource ID 2) should be set to zero (Pre-Shared Key mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Security Mode (Resource ID 2) set to zero (Pre-Shared Key mode).
```

  Identity (Resource ID 3) contains PSK ID in binary form.
  Secret key (Resource ID 5) contains the PSK key in binary form.

>   If key or identity is provided as a hex string, it must be converted to binary before storing into security object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the key or identity is provided as a hex string, it must be converted to binary before storing into the security object.
```

X509

>   When X509 certificates are used, Security Mode (ID 2) should be set to 2 (Certificate mode).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When X509 certificates are used, set Security Mode (ID 2) to ``2`` (Certificate mode).
```

  Identity (ID 3) is used to store the client certificate and Secret key (ID 5) must have a private key associated with the certificate.
  Server Public Key resource (ID 4) must contain a server certificate or CA certificate used to sign the certificate chain.

>   If :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS_PEM_CERTIFICATE_FORMAT` is enabled, certificates and private key can be fed as a PEM format. Otherwise they must be in binary DER format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MBEDTLS_PEM_CERTIFICATE_FORMAT` Kconfig option is enabled, certificates and private key can be entered in PEM format.
  Otherwise, they must be in binary DER format.
```

NoSec

>   When no security is used, Security Mode (Resource ID 2) should be set to value 3 (NoSec).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When no security is used, set Security Mode (Resource ID 2) to ``3`` (NoSec).
```

> In all modes above, Server URI resource (ID 0) should contain full URI for the target server.
> When DNS names are used, DNS resolver should be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In all modes, Server URI resource (ID 0) must contain the full URI for the target server.
When DNS names are used, the DNS resolver must be enabled.
```

> LwM2M stack provides callbacks in :c:struct:`lwm2m_ctx` structure that are used to feed keys from
> LwM2M security object into the TLS credential subsystem. By default, these callbacks can be left
> as NULL pointers, in which case default callbacks are used. When external TLS stack, or non default
> socket options are required, user may overwrite the :c:func:`lwm2m_ctx.load_credentials` or :c:func:`lwm2m_ctx.set_socketoptions` callbacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LwM2M stack provides callbacks in the :c:struct:`lwm2m_ctx` structure.
They are used to feed keys from the LwM2M security object into the TLS credential subsystem.
By default, these callbacks can be left as NULL pointers, in which case default callbacks are used.
When an external TLS stack, or non-default socket options are required, you can overwrite the :c:func:`lwm2m_ctx.load_credentials` or :c:func:`lwm2m_ctx.set_socketoptions` callbacks.
```

> Example of setting up the security object for PSK mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of setting up the security object for PSK mode:
```

	static const char client_identity[] = "Client_identity";

	lwm2m_set_string(&LWM2M_OBJ(LWM2M_OBJECT_SECURITY_ID, 0, 0), "coaps://lwm2m.example.com");
	lwm2m_set_u8(&LWM2M_OBJ(LWM2M_OBJECT_SECURITY_ID, 0, 2), LWM2M_SECURITY_PSK);
	/* Set the client identity as a string, but this could be binary as well */
	lwm2m_set_string(&LWM2M_OBJ(LWM2M_OBJECT_SECURITY_ID, 0, 3), client_identity);
	/* Set the client pre-shared key (PSK) */
	lwm2m_set_opaque(&LWM2M_OBJ(LWM2M_OBJECT_SECURITY_ID, 0, 5), client_psk, sizeof(client_psk));

> Example of setting up the security object for X509 certificate mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of setting up the security object for X509 certificate mode:
```
